.\"
.\" comment
.\"
.\"
.Dd July 3, 2016
.Dt create_jail_root 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm create_jail_root
.Nd download FreeBSD userland into a directory
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl a Ar architecture
.Op Fl f Ar files
.Op Fl p Ar components
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl v
.Ar target-directory
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is a 
.Xr sh 1
script which will populate a given
.Ar target-directory
with a FreeBSD userland, downloading the appropriate binary distribution files
from a FreeBSD mirror.
.Pp
.Nm
will first use
.Xr fetch 1
to download the FreeBSD components specified using the
.Fl p
option to a temporary directory and check their checksums.
Then it will extract the contents to the 
.Ar target-directory
and call
.Xr freebsd-update 8
to update the files to the latest patchlevel.
.Pp
If the 
.Fl s
option is provided,
.Nm
will also use 
.Xr freebsd-update 8
with the "IDS" parameter to verify the files using the hosts public key (which
should be trustworthy).
.Pp
Finally, it will copy all files specified via
.Fl f
from the host to the 
.Ar target-directory
.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a Ar architecture
Specify the architecture (e.g. i386 or amd64) to download and install.  
.Pp
Defaults to the host's architecture as provided by 'uname -m'.
.It Fl f Ar files
Comma-separated list of files to be copied from host (only commas, no spaces) to
the target directory. Paths are preserved relative to the 
.Ar target-directory.
.Pp
Note that any path components that do not exist in the 
.Ar target-directory
yet (like '/usr/local/etc') will be created using
.Xr mkdir 1
and the new directories will have the calling user as owner and permissions set
according to the user's umask. If this is not the desired outcome, you need to
copy the files manually.
.Pp
Defaults to '/etc/localtime,/etc/resolv.conf'. Use -f '' to turn off copying of
files
.Pp
.It Fl n
Dry run only.
.Nm
will check its parameters but not do anything. Most useful in combination with 
.Fl v
to check if parameters are correct.
.It Fl p Ar packages
Comma-separated list of packages to download (e.g.  base,src,lib32) - no spaces
and no file extensions are allowed. Available components vary from architecture
to architecture, to get a list of available components, just go to the
appropriate release dir on the FreeBSD mirror you are using.
.Pp
Default: base
.It Fl r Ar release
Specify the release to download and install. You can use only the version number
or the version number and the suffix '-RELEASE' (e.g. 10.3 or 10.3-RELEASE).
.Pp
Note that only -RELEASE versions are usually provided as binaries, so the -RELEASE
suffix will automatically be appended if you specify just the version number.
.Pp
Defaults to the host's release as provided by 'uname -r'
.It Fl s
Compare the installed files to sha256 checksums using the 'freebsd-update IDS'
command.
.Pp
This option is disabled by default since it does take a long time and is a bit
paranoid.
.It Fl v
Be verbose, printing all parameters before starting to do anything.
.El
.Pp
The 
.Ar target-directory
argument must specify a directory that already exists. All files will be placed
directly under this directory (which can also be a mountpoint, e.g. for a zfs
filesystem).
.Pp
The following options allow to turn different stages of the script on or off:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl D
download
.It Fl V
verify downloaded files
.It Fl E
extract
.It Fl U
update using freebsd-update
.It Fl S
check using freebsd-update IDS
.It Fl F
copy host files
.El
.Pp
Specifying any of these options will enable only that stage and disable all
other stages, unless they are explicitly enabled again using the appropriate
options.
.Pp
These options are only intended for debugging and testing.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits with one of the following values:
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It 0
Everything worked.
.It 1
Unrecognized or missing parameter.
.It 2
The target directory does not exist.
.It 3
Failed to download one or more files.
.It 4
Checksum comparison failed for one or more files.
.It 5
Unable to extract one of the downloaded components.
.It 6
Unable call 
.Xr freebsd-update_jail 1
on the 
.Ar target-directory.
.It 7
Verification using "freebsd-update_jail IDS" failed.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr freebsd-update_jail 1 
